Posit's own Kristin Bott.
Ah, ah.
Okay, fantastic.
All right, folks, after all of that, good afternoon.
My name is Kristin Bott,
and I'm gonna close out this session
and echo some of the things that you've already heard.
So ears up for a little bit of repetition.
So title of my talk is On Teaching Adults to Code.
And I suppose I could have had
a little more of a playful title here.
So something like, how do you teach adults new tricks
except swap out those juggling,
or swap out those juggling balls for some relevant packages.
So regardless of your framing,
the problem that we're trying to solve here
is what is a good path
to reach the goal of effective education?
And my guess is you could have
a couple of different perspectives
when you are approaching this problem.
So one, you might have a team that you need to have trained.
So I'm not talking about you
as the person in front of the room.
You're not the educator,
but you have a staff that needs to gain some kind of skill,
and your job is to figure out, okay,
of all the training options, courses, resources,
what do I do, what do I pick?
How do I get my people from where they are
to what they need to know?
Option two, you could be that person
in the front of the room.
You're in that educator position,
and so your job is how do I figure out
how to structure and present information
in a way that's going to land and stick?
And then, of course, you might have something
that you yourself need to learn,
some skill you need to build.
So all of these different perspectives on the same problem,
I'm going to argue that the underlying components
are going to be the same.
To give you all a sense of where I'm coming from,
so I've spent a lot of time thinking
about how to educate effectively.
Before I came to Posit, I was in higher ed for 10 years,
basically at the intersection of education and technology.
And for the last three and a half, almost four years,
I've been with Posit Academy.
For those not familiar,
Academy is one of Posit's learning offerings.
So we're an educational program
that is built around the idea
that data science is not a spectator sport.
So we believe that learners need to be actively engaged
with tools and concepts in order to have this stuff stick.
We teach courses in foundations of data science
in R and Python,
a sort of intermediate programming in R course,
and then an introduction to Shiny for R.
We started in early 2022.
We've reached more than 1,500 learners
across about 100 companies.
And those companies span Fortune 500, Fortune 100,
top 20 pharma,
public sector at the state, local, and federal level.
I've got some nonprofits
and different corners of the private sector.
And I tell you all of that to get the point across
that we've worked with a lot of different people
with different backgrounds, different contexts,
different skill levels, different needs,
different learning styles.
And I think we've been pretty effective.
So I'm going to reference Academy throughout this talk,
not as a product,
but as an example of what a very intentionally designed
educational program can look like.
So I'll bring you some lessons
from what we've been up to
for the past more than three years.
So now that I've set the stage, here we go.
So this afternoon, I am going to Posit,
ugh.
That effective education requires three things.
So thing the first, you need time over time.
And I think that everyone in this room is going to nod
and say, yes, yes, learning takes time, I get it.
But I think it's a little more nuanced.
So this is a visualization
of what a one-day workshop might look like.
So this is a large volume of hours
over a relatively short number of days.
And,
okay, very good.
For most people in this room,
you've probably had some experience like this.
It was a workshop, it was a short course,
some kind of intensive training.
So if that's familiar, my question for you is,
how much of that did you retain?
And maybe think about when you were leaving the classroom,
two weeks later, two months later, four, six months later,
how much of that knowledge stuck with you?
I'm seeing some knowing smiles.
So, oh, there's the mic, interesting.
I'll just go like this.
So for everyone who said, oh, not 100%,
mic threw me off.
For everyone who said not 100%, a couple of things.
Congratulations, you are not alone.
And also, that is not, you are not alone
because most people forget most things that they learn
in a really intense period like that.
And also, that is not your fault.
It is not the fault of your instructors.
It's actually how our brains are made.
So this is a representation of a forgetting curve,
also known as an Ebbinghaus curve.
He's a fellow who did the original research.
The idea here is that when you initially learn something,
gain a skill, your mastery is really high.
And then as time goes on,
your proximity to that knowledge drops
and your brain simply cannot hold onto that information
unless you practice.
You see here that you practice once,
mastery rises, and then declines over time.
So if you can keep up that practice,
you can help combat that forgetting.
Increased practice over time, mastery stays high.
This is how you have skills stick with you.
So here's my same workshop experience.
That is the same volume of hours
spread out over a larger number of days.
So if you have a choice,
I would recommend trying to structure your learning
more like this, a little bit bit-by-bit.
Now, for everybody who was in workshops yesterday,
don't despair.
This is instead your nudge to go home
when you're done with conf
and practice those things you learned yesterday
so they stick with you for six months.
All right, the way that we deal with this in Academy,
we teach our courses over time,
so four to six weeks, depending on the topic,
and we approach that content that we teach
in a number of different ways,
all of which are on a weekly basis.
So one, you have asynchronous tutorials
that you work through on your own.
Those are released weekly.
We center our courses around data science projects.
So little bits of that project is made available every week,
and we put our learners in small groups.
Those groups convene also on a weekly basis
so you can learn together.
So time over time, your take-home here
is whenever possible, spread out your learning.
Now, the end of that last section
maybe sounds familiar to anyone
who has ever learned a musical instrument,
that idea that you need to practice a little bit every day.
So practice, yes, but I don't think that practice is enough.
So quick audience survey.
How many people have worked
with the Palmer Penguins package?
We've already seen them once today.
All right, fantastic, thank you.
Now, how many people in this room study penguins?
Antarctic biologists?
Any ornithologists?
Maybe.
All right, we've got a, thank you, thank you, bird people.
Good to see you.
So Palmer Penguins is a fantastic dataset.
It's a classic because it is accessible.
There are things that you can do
in terms of basic exploratory data analysis, graphs.
There's some nice diversity of data types in there.
So it's really good for beginners.
You get to learn things about penguins.
Penguins are neat.
My background's in ecology.
But my guess is that for most of the people in this room,
two exceptions, there's some distance
between what you need to do with data
when you have those data skills
and what you were doing with the penguin data.
So whether that's coming from a background of bench science,
somewhere in the healthcare industry,
maybe you do finance analytics,
there's a distance you have to travel
from that practice in penguins
to whatever you're actually doing.
And wouldn't it be neat if we can somehow shrink that?
So the way that we approach this in Academy,
those data science projects
that are the core of our courses,
we offer those in a variety of different topics
so that you can have something,
hopefully, that's a little bit closer to what you're doing.
So you might be in epidemiology.
You might work on measles.
We don't have a measles project,
but we have a COVID project.
And so we can keep you sort of in the same neighborhood
of what you're used to thinking about
what's going to be useful for you eventually,
a little bit closer than, say, while delightful, penguins.
All right, so you sort of got a spoiler for this idea
from both earlier mentions of scaffolding
and Ryan's laddering idea.
But here we have a learner in the lower portion of the slide
and they would like to practice their purr skills.
They just have to get from where they are to purr.
All right, so practice, yes, relevance when you can get it,
and that practice needs to be within reach.
So what I mean by that,
and this calls back to Ryan's concept of laddering,
what you need to do is present information
in incremental ways, increase challenge slowly over time
so that distance is possible for learners to cover
so they can get from where they are
to where they need to be.
To get a sense of what this looks like in practice,
notice penguins, good data set,
we use it in our foundational stuff.
So this is the first time that people see Summarize
in one of our courses.
There's a bunch of code, you run it.
So introduction, you get to just sort of take that in,
that's your cognitive work.
Later on in the course,
that code becomes more and more skeletal
so you need to do more and more work, more thinking,
you engage a little bit extra,
and then by the end, we turn to you
and effectively in a conversational sentence say,
hey, do a thing with the data please, thank you,
and you respond in code.
In terms of the projects,
we might turn to you and say,
okay, here is a data set,
here is a visual I have made with that data set,
your turn, go back and recreate that thing.
So there's still structure there,
but it is more open-ended than the lessons,
but more structured than just saying,
oh, go and do something, whatever you want.
Once you've done that recreation portion,
you can then build on that and do something
with the data that feels more relevant for you
and where you need to go.
Okay, so practice relevant within reach or take home here,
keep that practice close to the final application
and provide small steps to help learners get to their goals.
All right, let's try this out.
So here we have a learner
and this learner has relevant tasks,
relevant data and time set aside.
All right, let's do this.
So we are coding, we are coding, everything is great,
this is a ton of fun.
I just got an error and I got another error
and now nothing is working
and I don't like this and everything is bad.
All right, so what can we do to avoid this kind of explosion,
existential crisis or failure to learn?
What happens if we give this learner some friends?
So I think the, and I see Alyssa over there.
So I think the last component of effective education
is a community of practice.
So again, we've heard about this throughout the talks
for the rest of this session.
Community is very important for humans.
We are social creatures, we do not do well in isolation
and I think education is no exception
to that guiding principle.
And what I'd like to do in this section
is tuck nearly immediately into what we do in Academy
because there's lots of different ways to build community
and my hope is that if I give you examples
from what we've done, you can maybe apply some of that
to your different corner and get something
really useful out of this talk.
So for starters, we take our learners
and put them into small groups, say eight to 10 people.
So you get to know each other,
you start building a little bit of connection
to foster some of that psychological safety.
We have those groups facilitated by experienced mentors.
So these are people who bring experience in both code
but also education and that means that they can come in
and yes, they can demonstrate tips and tricks
and best practices and how to find information,
the kinds of things that are easier to learn in real time
from a human as opposed to in a tutorial.
And while all of that is useful and good,
I would argue that's not the most important part
of having the mentor in the room.
The mentor can build the kind of environment
where effective learning can really happen.
So psychological safety across the learners, sure.
But the mentor's in a position to do things
like normalize not knowing, normalize asking questions,
normalize making mistakes and be able to navigate
those moments of struggle.
You have someone to turn to who will say,
oh, does this feel hard?
If this feels hard, that's correct.
You are having a normal reaction.
You're doing something that is hard.
You are learning a new language and also you can do this.
We can get through this together.
Come on, let's figure this out.
Part of what I do in Academy is I run our mentor program
and so I meet with all of our active mentors every week.
So they stay super close to those groups
and how things are going,
which means I get to talk to our great mentors every week.
Here's a line from one of those meetings.
It often surprises me how much reassurance
adults need when they're learning.
And I call out adults as a particular learning population
because these folks are different
from Kelly's room full of college students.
So our learners are working professionals
and like probably everyone in this room,
they're very used to being very good at what they do.
And so it can be incredibly destabilizing
to have moments of, I don't know what's going on.
I don't know what this code is doing.
I don't know why this code doesn't work.
I need help.
And with a learner in the room,
you have someone who can model the kind of kindness
and curiosity that helps build a place
where people feel comfortable
doing the vulnerable business of learning,
where people are excited to solve problems together,
to celebrate together.
And if you want to think about this
from more of an organizational level, strategic angle,
communities of practice also help
make your group more resilient.
So you can have staff leave, retire, change jobs.
You can bring new people in
because what you've done is create a matrix of people
who are connected to each other.
So changes are going to be easier within that group.
And I said that I would make this tangible and actionable.
What you're looking at is a mashup
of a couple of the bingo cards
we put together for our Mentos.
So these are meant to be top-of-mind,
maybe top-of-desk resources,
just little things to keep in mind
while you are working with people.
So little, small, actionable bits.
And I'll pause here for a second
because there's a lot of text to read.
And in the interest of time, I'm going to scoot on.
I've got a link to the slides at the end.
So community of practice.
So your action here is to seek out
and foster connection for review.
Our big three are time over time,
relevant practice that is within reach,
and all of this happens within a community of practice.
And in closing, I want to come back to that last point.
So learning in community can be really fun and rewarding.
Again, we've heard about this throughout the session.
You have someone to turn to for that moment of,
ha-ha, I did it.
And you have someone who can help you
in the ugly moments of, ugh, I got stuck.
You also get to watch someone else experience the joy
of doing something they didn't think was possible for them.
But if you zoom out a little bit,
we are much stronger together than we are as individuals.
And so when you work in a community like this,
you are working to get the meaningful work done together,
which is maybe the most important part of all of this.
So that's what I've got.
I'll take any questions if I have time.
Thank you.
Okay, let's do one question.
What's the balance between teaching the community
something useful versus something they're interested in?
Oh, so useful,
so something useful versus something they're excited about.
I would be curious who's making both of those
determinations, but feminism aside.
Some laughing.
I think what I would do is try to figure out
what overlap between those two things could look like.
So what, like, where's the excitement
and is there a way to sort of dovetail that
into whatever application
we're driving towards that's required?
Sounds great to me.
Okay, fantastic.
All right, let's thank all these speakers.
Awesome.
Thank you, everyone.